So when these non-English speakers were introduced to Standard English, they influenced English with their own native languages, molding it into what we know today as Singlish.
Like any other language, Singlish has its own sets of rules and vocabulary.
You can use Singlish to get your points across faster with lesser words.
For example, in Standard English you would say,
Seems like it is going to rain today. I think it would be best for you to bring an umbrella out.
Which comes to a total of 21 words.
Whereas, when you use Singlish, you could say,
I'm gonna rain now, bring an umbrella out.
That's only 7 words.
Another interesting example is the Singlish word la that originates from its Chinese counterpart.
La is very versatile and can be used for many different contexts.
For example, you can say,
Sorry la, to make your apology sound less formal.
If you want to blame someone, you could say,
All your fault la, where the la emphasizes your anger.
You can also use la to reassure someone by saying,
Don't worry, can fix one la.